This directory contains all code necessary for generating analyses, results, and figures from our publication.  It also includes code for running the pretrained Enformer and Basenji models on Basenji's data, as well as code for retraining Basenji models from scratch.  Some data and model files are too large to be hosted on github and are instead available at Hugging Face:
 * Models: https://huggingface.co/adazhang1/genomics-replicability/tree/main
 * Supporting Data: https://huggingface.co/datasets/adazhang1/genomics-replicability/tree/main/supporting_data

# Main.ipynb overview
`Main.ipynb` processes raw predictions from the models, performs all performance analysis referenced in the publication, and generates all figures.  `prespecified.yml` defines the environment used to run `Main.ipynb`.  You can use `conda env create -f prespecified.yml` to recreate this environment.

## Supporting code and data
`Main.ipynb` relies on supporting code in the `./supporting_code/` directory:
 * `helper_functions.py` contains many helper functions for processing data, generating synthetic data, running analyses, etc.  This set of functions helps improve readability and reduce redundancy in `Main.ipynb`.  These functions are also released so that other researchers can see exactly how each analysis was performed.
 * `produce_figures.py` contains the code to produce each of the 6 figures and 4 supplemental figures in the paper.  In general, most of the computation is done external to these functions, but the code to produce the actual figures has been released for completeness.
 * `curlyBrace.py` assists with drawing the curly braces in figures 1 and 2.

`Main.ipynb` also relies on three supporting data files in the `./supporting_data/` directory:
* `gencode_protein_coding_transcripts.csv` contains the TSS for protein coding genes.  It was generated by processing `gencode.v44.primary_assembly.annotation.gtf` via `helper_functioncs.process_gtf_file()`.  The .gtf file is too large to host on github, but is available on [Hugging Face](https://huggingface.co/datasets/adazhang1/genomics-replicability/tree/main/supporting_data).
* `ground_truth_CAGE_only.pickle` contains ground truth track data where only CAGE tracks were kept.  Note that this file is too large to upload to github (8.2GB) but is available on [Hugging Face](https://huggingface.co/datasets/adazhang1/genomics-replicability/tree/main/supporting_data).
* `targets_with_subparts.csv` contains the CAGE tracks from `./basenji_data_specs/targets.txt` with manually added and annotated "Tissue" and "Cancer" columsn, which contain the tissue type of the CAGE sample and whether the sample is cancerous tissue or not.  This file is used for our tissue- and cancer-based analyses, including Figure S1 (Tissue/Cancer-based model performance and GMM distances within tissues), Table S1 (ANOVA comparing model performance correlation between tissue and cancer groups), and the GSEA analysis in Section 2.2.
* `ensg2gene_v115.csv` includes the ensg to gene name mapping retrieved from Ensembl.  This output was saved because Ensembl servers are sometimes unreliable.  This file was created with version 115, downloaded on May 29, 2026.
* `gene_prevalence.tsv` includes publication counts for genes.  Methods for generating this file are described in Section 4.4.  These publication frequencies are used for Figure 5.

`Main.ipynb` also uses data files released by Basenji that describe Basenji data, located in `./basenji_human_data`:
* `sequences.bed` includes the chromosome and start/end indices of each sample in Basenji's data.  This file is cross-referenced with the gene TSS file (`gencode_protein_coding_transcripts.csv`) to extract gene-based mopdel performance.
* `targets.txt` contains the description of each track predicted by Basenji and is used to extract CAGE tracks from raw ground truth and predicted data.

## Outputs
`Main.ipynb` outputs:
 * Normalized absolute median error within cancer groups, tissue groups, and tissue/cancer groups to `./GSEA_tissue_cancer_error`.  These `.csv` files are used for GSEA analysis in Section 2.2
 * All figures are output to `./figures`

# Retraining models and running inference
The `./models/` directory contains code for running the pretrained Enformer and Basenji models on Basenji's data, as well as code for retraining Basenji models from scratch.  These models correspond to the following models referred to in our paper:
 * Enformer released
 * Basenji released
 * Basenji retrained
 * Basenji retrained with augmentation

See the README.md files within the Basenji and Enformer subdirectories for details on how to run model retraining and model inference.

Note: Basenji's data are not included here due to size and cost.  Information on downloading their data is available here: https://github.com/calico/basenji/tree/master/manuscripts/cross2020. That link points to https://console.cloud.google.com/storage/browser/basenji_barnyard/data for downloading the data.  For this analysis, only the human data is required.

The trained models and model check points, stored as .h5 files, are too large to host on github.  A more complete model directory is available at Hugging Face: https://huggingface.co/adazhang1/genomics-replicability/tree/main.

Additionally, `predict_test_set.py` script outputs inference results as large ground truth (`model_best_test_set_gt.pickle`) and predicted (`model_best_test_set_pred.pickle`) files, which are used in the analysis done by `Main.ipynb` in the top level directory.  However, these files are not included on github or Hugging Face due to size (~69GB each, two files per model for which inference was run).  Please contact the authors if you would like to have access these files.