This directory contains all supporting data used by `Main.ipynb` in the parent directory.  Not all files are hosted on github due to size.  A complete upload of this directory is available at Hugging Face: https://huggingface.co/datasets/adazhang1/genomics-replicability/tree/main/supporting_data

# File descriptions
* `gencode_protein_coding_transcripts.csv` contains the TSS for protein coding genes.  It was generated by processing `gencode.v44.primary_assembly.annotation.gtf` via `helper_functioncs.process_gtf_file()`.  The .gtf file is too large to host on github, but is available on [Hugging Face](https://huggingface.co/datasets/adazhang1/genomics-replicability/tree/main/supporting_data).
* `ground_truth_CAGE_only.pickle` contains ground truth track data where only CAGE tracks were kept.  Note that this file is too large to upload to github (8.2GB) but is available on [Hugging Face](https://huggingface.co/datasets/adazhang1/genomics-replicability/tree/main/supporting_data).
* `targets_with_subparts.csv` contains the CAGE tracks from `./basenji_data_specs/targets.txt` with manually added and annotated "Tissue" and "Cancer" columsn, which contain the tissue type of the CAGE sample and whether the sample is cancerous tissue or not.  This file is used for our tissue- and cancer-based analyses, including Figure S1 (Tissue/Cancer-based model performance and GMM distances within tissues), Table S1 (ANOVA comparing model performance correlation between tissue and cancer groups), and the GSEA analysis in Section 2.2.
* `ensg2gene_v115.csv` includes the ensg to gene name mapping retrieved from Ensembl.  This output was saved because Ensembl servers are sometimes unreliable.  This file was created with version 115, downloaded on May 29, 2026.
* `gene_prevalence.tsv` includes publication counts for genes.  Methods for generating this file are described in Section 4.4.  These publication frequencies are used for Figure 5.